---
layout: post
title: Rails and PostgreSQL on Snow Leopard using homebrew
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 29 Apr 2010 - Laurel, MD

Update: 12 May 2010.  Updated automatic load instructions.

As we have seen in the past, I couldn't find a definitive, accurate install and use guide for PostgreSQL with Rails on Snow Leopard, using homebrew.  In the end, it took less work than any of the existing instruction lists (that I found) indicated.  

Of Note: I did NOT need to make any changes to my $PATH or .profile.

Most of this is based on info from: 
 * http://blog.tquadrado.com/?p=215
 * test
 * http://www.gregbenedict.com/2009/08/31/installing-postgresql-on-snow-leopard-10-6/

Thank you all for the helpful info.


h2. Installation

We assume you have homebrew installed.
Note: I did not allow incoming network connections.  You may, but everything I discuss works without it.

  <code>$ brew install postgresql #postgres is alias</code>
  
Follow the instructions for initializing (initdb...).
Follow the instructions for automatic load, if applicable (launchctl...)

That's it.  I didn't need any of the mkdir and chown commands some instructions listed.

Install the fast postgres gem:
  <code>  $ gem install pg </code>

Installation complete.

UPDATE:
If postgres is not loading on boot OR you see:
<code>launchctl: Dubious ownership on file (skipping): /usr/local/Cellar/postgresql/8.4.3/org.postgresql.postgres.plist
nothing found to load</code>

Then this should fix it:
<code> 
  sudo chown root:wheel /usr/local/Cellar/postgresql/8.4.3/org.postgresql.postgres.plist
  sudo launchctl load -w /usr/local/Cellar/postgresql/8.4.3/org.postgresql.postgres.plist
</code>


h2. Rails

The docs indicate that a superuser named 'postgres' is created by default.  
Instead, my installation created a superuser named after the logged in user: $USER.

To make sharing the database.yml easier, I created another user:
<code>
  $ createuser --superuser your_company_name -U $USER
</code>

Now update your database.yml:

<pre>
development:
  adapter: postgresql
  database: health_crowd_dev
  username: your_company_name
  host: localhost
</pre>

Some instructions list more settings.  These worked for me.

You are ready.
<code>  $ rake db:create</code>

fini.